README.md, before:

# To Do List Extension

## Goals
Before starting this lab, you should have completed Tutorial 2 of Ray Wenderlich's iOS Apprentice (Beginning iOS Development with Swift 2). That tutorial continued your introduction to the Swift programming language and introduced classes, subclasses, table views, navigation controllers, and delegates. With this extension you'll get additional practice working on these concepts. The Advanced section will also test your ability to search for and implement third-party code.

> As you work through this lab, use dummy data so you have content to work with, start with small changes so you can track what work you've done, and compile often. You should never be more than a couple undos away from a working build. And remember, we purposely left some holes in the instructions to increase the challenge. If you get stuck, *Google all your woes away*. It's the same thing seasoned pros do, so get used to the process. When you've searched and studied as much as you can, and you still can't find an answer, talk to an instructor. We're always happy to help!

## Separate checklists based on completion status
### Instructions
Instead of grouping all of our checklists together, let's add sections to the `AllListsViewController` to differentiate complete checklists from those still in progress. Checklists which have not yet been completed should appear in a section titled *In Progress*. Checklists whose items have all been checked off will fall into the *Completed* section with their titles grayed out.

#### 1. Update the Checklist to include a Completion Status attribute
* Edit the Checklist class.
* Edit the Checklist data model.
* Every time a task is completed, a check to see if the checklist is completed should be run and the isCompleted property of that checklist should be changed when necessary.

#### 2. Create separate sections in the AllListsViewController
* Create two sections.
* Set the section header titles appropriately.

#### 3. Read the Completion Status of the checklists and sort them appropriately
* Every time we load the `AllListsViewController`, the `isCompleted` property on each checklist should be read. Checklists should be sorted into the appropriate section.
* Lists in the *Completed* section should appear visibly different from those in the *In Progress* section.

## Add sub-lists to items in the ChecklistViewController
### Instructions
Often times it's useful to have lists within a single task on a list. A simple example is a high-level list titled *Home*, which contains tasks such as:

> * Do Laundry
  * Clean up from last night's ice cream party
  * Locate missing ice cream scoop
  * Get Groceries

But what if we want more detail for a certain item on that list? Say we want to describe all the groceries we need to speed up our shopping trip. One way to do this would be to have a list of sub-items for the *Get Groceries* task:

> * Get Groceries
  * Ice cream
  * Chocolate syrup
  * Sprinkles

Here are the criteria for our multilevel list extension: Tapping on a task should show its sub-items, if any exist. Tapping on a sub-item should mark it as complete. Once all sub-items are marked as complete, the task should also be marked as complete. If no sub-items exist for a task, tapping on a task should mark it as complete.

#### 1. Create a new class for your sub list items
* Create properties to capture appropriate sublist information in a collection
* Update the data model to include your new class similar to how `CheckListItem` class is handled

#### 2. Update your views
* Add an additional cell prototype to `CheckListViewController`
	* Think about what you'll need to allow the user to add items (buttons, swipe to delete, ability to check items off etc.)
* Add a new view controller to storyboard and connect it to a new view controller class
	* Put yourself in the user's place and think about how they'll want to add their sublists. Will it be as detailed as `ItemDetailViewController`? Probably not. But checking out what you did there is a good start.

#### 3. Custom delegates
* You'll need to pass information from the view controller where the user enters their sublist information, to where it will be displayed.
* Reread the section in the book about what you've done with custom delegates for the `ItemDetailViewController` to allow sending information back to the `CheckListViewController`
* The situation for sending information from `SubItemDetailViewController` to the `CheckListViewController` is practically identical


## Advanced

### Reordering
Find a way to enable users to reorder lists and items. There are multiple ways to accomplish this. Think about how a user will experience your app. How would you want to reorder a list?

One way would be to use gesture recognizers. Read [Apple's documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UIKit/Reference/UIGestureRecognizer_Class/) before you continue to get a sense of what gesture recognizers are and how you can use them. This [tutorial](https://www.raywenderlich.com/63089/cookbook-moving-table-view-cells-with-a-long-press-gesture) walks you through implementing a *long press gesture recognizer* to reorder cells in a table view. Try this method out, then look up alternatives. Find at least two more ways to implement list reordering and see if you can implement those, too.  

### Expanding table view cells
Instead of displaying a task's sub-items as table view cells when the task is tapped, expand the task's cell and display the sub-items within that cell. This will be an exercise in googling. You can look for CocoaPods to help you accomplish this portion of the assignment. After you've found one, be sure and look up the exact steps for adding and using a Pod. It's not as easy as dragging and dropping a file.

*Protip*: when it comes time to edit the Podfile in the process of adding a CocoaPod to your project, be sure and open it with Atom or Sublime Text, not TextEdit. Quotation marks are converted/handled weird and may cause problems when your program tries to read the file.

Using a CocoaPod is optional. There are plenty of resources to help with creating this effect.

### Bling out your app
Your To Do List app has some pretty cool functionality, but let's be honest, its looks leave a lot to be desired. Let's spice things up with some custom graphics and UI elements.

> This portion of the assignment goes outside the realm of code and into design. It's important to have a sense of how elements of a User Interface are built, but remember: you're here to code.
> *Don't spend more than four hours of class time working on this section.* If you really like Sketch you're more than welcome to continue experimenting at home.

First, download the 14 day free trial of [Sketch App](http://sketchapp.com), the hot-new-thing in the world of mobile and graphic design.

> You're not required to purchase Sketch, but if you choose to do so you can submit a screenshot of your Flatiron School letter of admission to get educational discount pricing.

Try improving or adding these UI elements:

* List Icons
* Launch Screen image
* App Icon

Many tutorials and resources exist for Sketch. Read through [this tutorial](https://medium.com/sketch-tricks/creating-a-vector-logo-in-sketch-3-6d67e72a1449#.uigu1hc59) on Medium to get started. This [Ray Wenderlich](https://www.raywenderlich.com/117609/sketch-indie-developers) tutorial will guide you through creating basic UI elements for your iOS app. When you're ready to create a custom icon for your app, check out [this tutorial](http://designmodo.com/icon-design-sketch/).

A few more resources you can browse to familiarize yourself with Sketch are the [official documentation](https://www.sketchapp.com/learn/documentation/) and the [Sketch App Sources](http://www.sketchappsources.com/tutorials-tips.html) website.

Remember: It's good to know how to design your own UI, but the code behind it should be your primary focus.

Commit message:

Added a screenshot of the checklist sections

README.md, after:

# To Do List Extension

## Goals
Before starting this lab, you should have completed Tutorial 2 of Ray Wenderlich's iOS Apprentice (Beginning iOS Development with Swift 2). That tutorial continued your introduction to the Swift programming language and introduced classes, subclasses, table views, navigation controllers, and delegates. With this extension you'll get additional practice working on these concepts. The Advanced section will also test your ability to search for and implement third-party code.

> As you work through this lab, use dummy data so you have content to work with, start with small changes so you can track what work you've done, and compile often. You should never be more than a couple undos away from a working build. And remember, we purposely left some holes in the instructions to increase the challenge. If you get stuck, **Google all your woes away**. It's the same thing seasoned pros do, so get used to the process. When you've searched and studied as much as you can, and you still can't find an answer, talk to an instructor. We're always happy to help!

## Separate checklists based on completion status
### Instructions
Instead of grouping all of our checklists together, let's add sections to the `AllListsViewController` to differentiate complete checklists from those still in progress. Checklists which have not yet been completed should appear in a section titled *In Progress*. Checklists whose items have all been checked off will fall into the *Completed* section with their titles grayed out.

#### 1. Update the Checklist to include a Completion Status attribute
* Edit the Checklist class.
* Edit the Checklist data model.
* Every time a task is completed, a check to see if the checklist is completed should be run and the isCompleted property of that checklist should be changed when necessary.

#### 2. Create separate sections in the AllListsViewController
* Create two sections.
* Set the section header titles appropriately.

#### 3. Read the Completion Status of the checklists and sort them appropriately
* Every time we load the `AllListsViewController`, the `isCompleted` property on each checklist should be read. Checklists should be sorted into the appropriate section.
* Lists in the *Completed* section should appear visibly different from those in the *In Progress* section.

![Separate Sections for Checklists](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/16245367/15329484/e9db83fa-1c26-11e6-9e5d-ba2813393bf0.png "Checklist Sections")

Your separate sections should look similar to this.

## Add sub-lists to items in the ChecklistViewController
### Instructions
Often times it's useful to have lists within a single task on a list. A simple example is a high-level list titled *Home*, which contains tasks such as:

> * Do Laundry
  * Clean up from last night's ice cream party
  * Locate missing ice cream scoop
  * Get Groceries

But what if we want more detail for a certain item on that list? Say we want to describe all the groceries we need to speed up our shopping trip. One way to do this would be to have a list of sub-items for the *Get Groceries* task:

> * Get Groceries
  * Ice cream
  * Chocolate syrup
  * Sprinkles

Here are the criteria for our multilevel list extension: Tapping on a task should show its sub-items, if any exist. Tapping on a sub-item should mark it as complete. Once all sub-items are marked as complete, the task should also be marked as complete. If no sub-items exist for a task, tapping on a task should mark it as complete.

#### 1. Create a new class for your sub list items
* Create properties to capture appropriate sublist information in a collection
* Update the data model to include your new class similar to how `CheckListItem` class is handled

#### 2. Update your views
* Add an additional cell prototype to `CheckListViewController`
	* Think about what you'll need to allow the user to add items (buttons, swipe to delete, ability to check items off etc.)
* Add a new view controller to storyboard and connect it to a new view controller class
	* Put yourself in the user's place and think about how they'll want to add their sublists. Will it be as detailed as `ItemDetailViewController`? Probably not. But checking out what you did there is a good start.

#### 3. Custom delegates
* You'll need to pass information from the view controller where the user enters their sublist information, to where it will be displayed.
* Reread the section in the book about what you've done with custom delegates for the `ItemDetailViewController` to allow sending information back to the `CheckListViewController`
* The situation for sending information from `SubItemDetailViewController` to the `CheckListViewController` is practically identical


## Advanced

### Reordering
Find a way to enable users to reorder lists and items. There are multiple ways to accomplish this. Think about how a user will experience your app. How would you want to reorder a list?

One way would be to use gesture recognizers. Read [Apple's documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UIKit/Reference/UIGestureRecognizer_Class/) before you continue to get a sense of what gesture recognizers are and how you can use them. This [tutorial](https://www.raywenderlich.com/63089/cookbook-moving-table-view-cells-with-a-long-press-gesture) walks you through implementing a *long press gesture recognizer* to reorder cells in a table view. Try this method out, then look up alternatives. Find at least two more ways to implement list reordering and see if you can implement those, too.  

### Expanding table view cells
Instead of displaying a task's sub-items as table view cells when the task is tapped, expand the task's cell and display the sub-items within that cell. This will be an exercise in googling. You can look for CocoaPods to help you accomplish this portion of the assignment. After you've found one, be sure and look up the exact steps for adding and using a Pod. It's not as easy as dragging and dropping a file.

*Protip*: when it comes time to edit the Podfile in the process of adding a CocoaPod to your project, be sure and open it with Atom or Sublime Text, not TextEdit. Quotation marks are converted/handled weird and may cause problems when your program tries to read the file.

Using a CocoaPod is optional. There are plenty of resources to help with creating this effect.

### Bling out your app
Your To Do List app has some pretty cool functionality, but let's be honest, its looks leave a lot to be desired. Let's spice things up with some custom graphics and UI elements.

> This portion of the assignment goes outside the realm of code and into design. It's important to have a sense of how elements of a User Interface are built, but remember: you're here to code.
> *Don't spend more than four hours of class time working on this section.* If you really like Sketch you're more than welcome to continue experimenting at home.

First, download the 14 day free trial of [Sketch App](http://sketchapp.com), the hot-new-thing in the world of mobile and graphic design.

> You're not required to purchase Sketch, but if you choose to do so you can submit a screenshot of your Flatiron School letter of admission to get educational discount pricing.

Try improving or adding these UI elements:

* List Icons
* Launch Screen image
* App Icon

Many tutorials and resources exist for Sketch. Read through [this tutorial](https://medium.com/sketch-tricks/creating-a-vector-logo-in-sketch-3-6d67e72a1449#.uigu1hc59) on Medium to get started. This [Ray Wenderlich](https://www.raywenderlich.com/117609/sketch-indie-developers) tutorial will guide you through creating basic UI elements for your iOS app. When you're ready to create a custom icon for your app, check out [this tutorial](http://designmodo.com/icon-design-sketch/).

A few more resources you can browse to familiarize yourself with Sketch are the [official documentation](https://www.sketchapp.com/learn/documentation/) and the [Sketch App Sources](http://www.sketchappsources.com/tutorials-tips.html) website.

Remember: It's good to know how to design your own UI, but the code behind it should be your primary focus.
